---
id: planning
title: Just let me code!
---
Whether you were tasked to construct a bridge (that has to sustain 1000s of cars per day), or you were tasked to construct a software (that has to sustain 1000s of users per day). You better plan it well before 'getting to work/code'.

A typical project goes through following phases :

`1. Requirements -> 2. Architecture -> 3. Detailed Design -> 4. Code -> 5. Maintainence`

A (shocking?) suprise to some joinees of our Engineering team is that - no matter whether you are a seasoned engineer or fresh out of college, **we expect YOU to :**
1. Write requirements.. (not all, but atleast use cases & test cases)
2. Architect the project.. (so basically a few diagrams)
3. Document a detailed design.. (so maybe pick the technology stack, cite links to a few stackoverflow answers to show how others in industry got something similar done)

Do not worry, through this handbook we try to give example references of how use cases, architecture, and detailed design look like. In some cases the projects you join may also have some of this already done (to some extent) so you can build upon them. 

We are looking for engineers who are not afraid to update the requirements or architecture document themselves & cast a domino effect on Detailed Design or the actual code!

WHY to plan
===
In our greed to shorten the schedule, we often take shortcuts. Writing Code often gets more attention while tasks like architecture, code review, and testing are minimized to save everyone's time.

But cutting these corners rather results in 'unpredictable increase in schedule' down the line. Read [this study](https://stevemcconnell.com/articles/software-quality-at-top-speed/) till the end (do not miss Figure 2).

Finally check Slide 24-29 in [Last Defect Correction is Expensive](https://www.slideshare.net/crocketthopper/myths-8773984/25?src=clipshare)

