---
id: requirements
title: Write Requirements
---
* [Functional Requirements](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_requirement) is a word document where we enlist high level features that user experiences. Often it is a list of screens, maybe some screenshots of how finished application will look like. If the project does not contains screens, then use cases are good enough. Always documented by someone playing the role of Product Manager. You can be an engineer in the team as well, but if you know the [Product/Market fit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Product/market_fit) - you can chime in these documents and change them
* User Interface Prototype are the same screens documented in functional requirements with the difference that they are more animate and actually interactable as you click on each button or link. Often developed using tools like Axure or Figma. Often done by someone playing the role of UI Prototyper, but engineers can play this role pretty well by leveraging their UI frameworks such as Semantic UI or jQuery UI and quickly coming up with prototypes.
* [Non-functional Requirements](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-functional_requirement) rest inside the functional requirements word document & try to detail stuff which often is invisible to end user. Engineers and Product Managers fill it together. Such as detailing :
    * How backup is to be taken of production data. Whether Disaster Recovery must be run in cold mode or hot mode.
    * Response time of the application
    * How [Developer experience](https://hackernoon.com/the-best-practices-for-a-great-developer-experience-dx-9036834382b0) is supposed to be to track and fix bugs in production environment
    * and some more [examples here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-functional_requirement#Examples)
* [Use Cases](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Use_case) are written in separate word or spreadsheet document. They are supposed to be higher level description of project. It is a good idea to keep the use cases documented in word document to begin with, but keep them as plain text inside `docs` folder of the project. Often written by programmers
* Test Cases take birth from use cases. They are supposed to be written inside codebase. Running commands such as `python main.py test` or `npm test` should perform automated tests on the entire codebase and return whether each test case failed or passed. Always written by programmers.